When would you want to use a remote repository rather than keeping all your work local?

Keeping a remote repository allows people to collaborate on the same project and allows everyone to contribute to it. This is very helpful in open-source projects, where anyone can help in improving code by fixing bugs and adding new features.


Why might you want to always pull changes manually rather than having Git automatically stay up-to-date with your remote repository?

I would like to manually pull the code because I wouldn't want my local copy to change due to a change in the remote while I am working on a local. If there is a bug in the remote, I would like to wait for the bug to be fixed before pulling in the new version of the code.


Describe the differences between forks, clones, and branches. When would you use one instead of another?

Forks, clones and branches are ways to add changes without changing existing version. Branches always act on the same repository, whereas Clones and Forks create copy into a new repository.
Forking only exists with GitHub, whereas Clone can be performed even locally. Forking adds a credit to the original creator of the repo.
Use a branch to test a new feature or fix without affecting the stability of the master. Use a clone to copy over a remote repo to local to make changes. Use a fork to modify a repo with contributors you do not know and will not get the permission.


What is the benefit of having a copy of the last known state of the remote stored locally?

If we are going offline and want to update the local repo but not worry about merging till a later point, we can always fetch to create a separate branch.


How would you collaborate without using Git or GitHub? What would be easier, and what would be harder?

Without using Git or Github we would need to resort to sending zip files containing the changed code and a list of files changed and what change has been made through an email. Having a shared location like dropbox wouldn't allow simultaneous changes.


When would you want to make changes in a separate branch rather than directly in master? What benefits does each approach have?

Using branches is useful when there are a larger group of people. On my own, I think most of the times a master branch should be enough.
