What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?

Initializing a repository creates a metadata directory .git that contains version information for all the files that are being worked on in the directory that git init was called. You need to run git init before you commit something because it creates an Initial Commit and HEAD for the files in the directory which can then be tracked after a commit.


How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

Staging area lies between the working directory and the repository where files wait to be committed into the repository from the working directory. It is just a metadata store and does not actually store the files like the repository or the working directory. All files in the staging area are committed as a bundle so logically distinct files can be committed at different points if they are in the same working directory.


How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

We can use git add to add the files to staging area. So using this command, we add only those files that are logically related and later do a git commit to commit all these related files in a single commit with a meaningful commit message.


What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

When we have some experimental code to create, create a new version (like a locale change) or working on a bug fix, we can create a branch for these and continue adding code without worrying about breaking our master branch. These branches hold a separate list of changes that are only fixed to the branch and when the new feature is tested to be working fine, we can merge it with the master branch.


How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

The diagrams in the form of trees help you visualize each branch separately and also help in understanding where breaks have taken place in the branch. By following the arrows, we know all the commits that are part of the branch and if there are any unreachable commits on any branch that may be lost if not merged with the head of a branch.


What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

The result of merging two branches is the code that is common to both is kept the same, the new lines are added and the ones that have changed in both causes a merge conflict which the users who caused the change must resolve for final commit. In the diagram these are represented by showing the two branches merging into a new node and the head is relocated to this node.


What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

Pros: During automatic merging of common lines, Git will not accidentally delete some lines which are possible during manual merges, is easier and can be run with a single command, whereas manual requires tedious need to go over the whole code and try to understand the change.
Cons: Git can sometimes not know the context of code so manual intervention is sometimes necessary to decide conflicts. 
